Sub sections:
1. About this book
2. How the web works
3. Learning from other pages


1. About this book :
  Introduction: There are intro pages for each chapter, introducing the key topics of each chapter
  Reference: which introduce the key pieces of HTML/CSS code. HTML in blue and CSS in pink
  Background: white pages that explain the context
  Diagram: dark pages showing infographics. Simple visual reference 
  Example: show a working example of the key topics
  Summary: summarize what the chapter went over
  
  
 Is it hard to learn? No! Code can look complicated at a glance but if you take the time to break it down piece by piece it's rather simple and follows logical rules. 
 
 Structure of this book: Three sections  
      Section 1.HTML: first chapter will look at HTML and how its used to create web pages.
        you can start by simply writing what you want to appear on your page
        then you add tages or elements to the words so that the browser knows what you want each set of words to be, a heading or a paragraph as an example. 
        the rest of this section will introduce us to the tags at our disposal with HTML
            texts
            links
            images
            tables
            forms
            video audio
            flash
            miscellaneous elemets
        these may not be the most exciting but theyre important building blocks
      
      Section 2. CSS: This section starts with how CS uses rules to style your HTML webpages
        Look at a variety of CSS properties. Generally these properties fall into one of two categories:
             Presentation: How to control things such as color of text, fonts, size of text, background colors, and background images
             Layout: These control where the different elements are positioned on the screen. Making the site more attractive
        
      Section 3: Practical: The book ends with some helpful info that helps in building better websites. 
        Some new tags for HTML5 which help describe the structure of the pages. (HTML5 being the newest version of HTML)
        Before learning this it's important to have a grasp on CSS. 
        These chapters will talk about the design process that I can follow in creating a new site
        Then there are topics that will help us put it on the web, Search Enginge optimisation (SEO) and analytics software to track who comes to the site
      
How people access the web:
      Browsers: such as chrome, firefox, safari etc.
      Web servers: When you use your brower the request of going to a site is sent to a webserver which hosts the site.
                   web servers are computers that are constantly connected to the internet and optimized to send web pages.
                   Some big comparies run their own webservers but its more common to use the service of a webhosting company
      Devices: Desktops, laptops, tablets, mobline phones. 
      Screen Readers: Programs that read out the contents of a computer screen to the user.
                      It's important to keep in mind screen readers when you're desiging your code 
                      Throughout this book we'll see references to them and how to ensure our site are accessible to people who use this software
                      
How Websites are created: : All websites used HTML and CSS but content management systems, blogging software, and e-commerce platforms often add a few more technologies.
       What you see: web browser interprets the HTML/CSS code you create. 
                     Most sites include extra content such as images, audio, video, or animations.
                     Some sites also send JavaScript or Flash, these are advanced topics touched on later (different book)
       How it is created: Small websites just use HTML/CSS
                          Larger websites make use of technologies that are used to produce HTML and CSS that is sent to the browser
                          More complex sites may use a database to store data, and programming languages such as PHP, ASP.net Java or Ruby on a web server. 
       HTML5 & CSS3: These are the most recent versions oF HTML and CSS, they build on previous versions of the languages. 
       
       
How the web works: Communication between your computer and a Domain Name System (DNS) server 
                   1. Connect to the web vis Internet service provider (ISP)
                   2. Computer contacts a network (DNS)
                   3. Unique number of DNS server returns to your computer and allows the browers to contact the web server. 
                   4. Web server sends back the page you requested
                   
