Chapter 1: The ABCs of programming

A. What is a script and how do I create one. 
B. How do computers fit in with the world around them?
C. How do I write a script for a web page? 

A. Script is a set of instructions
    like a recipe, a handbook, or manuals. 
    Scripts are made up of a instructions a computer can follow step-by-step
    A browser may use different parts of the script depending on how the user interacts with the webpage
    Scripts can run different sections of the code in response to the situation around them 
    
    To write script first: state your goals. list the tasks that need to be completed in order to achieve it. 
       1. Define the goal
       2. design the script
       3. code each step 
       
     Flow chart: Tasks of a hotel cleaner
     Check each room
        Does the room need tidying?
              yes: tidy room 
                    Step1 remove bedding
                    2 wipe all surfaces
                    3 vacuum floor
                    4 fit new bedding
                    5 remove used towels and soaps
                    6 clean toilet bath sink and surfaces
                    7 place new towels and soap
                    8 wipe bathroom floor
                    9 repeat check
              no: move to next step
         Does the mini bar need restocking?
               yes: restock then run check again
               no: move to next step
         Move to next room
      
Need to learn: 
    Vocabulary: text that computer understands
    Syntax: how to put that text into instructions the computer can follow
Computers solver problems programmatically, by following a series of istructions on after the other. 
  Type of instructions they need are often different from the type we as humans would need, Needs step by step instructions 
  
  To design the script you should draw out a flowchart

Summary of 1A:
- script is a series of instructions that the cmputer can follow in order to achieve a goal
- each time the script runs, it might only use a subset of all instructions
- computers approach the task in a different way than humans, so your instruction must let the computer solve the task programmatically
- to approach writing a script break down your goal into a series of tasks then work out each step needed to complete the task (a flowchart can help)


Chapter 1B: How do computers fit in with the world around them?

Computers create models of the world using data. 
    Objects: things: each object can have its own
        - properties
        - events
        - methods
     Properties : characteristics : each property has
        - name
        - value
       
    Events: What is an event?
        The computers way of sticking up its hand and saying "hey this just happened"
    What does an event do?
         The programmers choose which eventsthey respond to. 
         When specific events happen, that even can trigger apsecific sections of the code
         
     Methods: represent things people need to do with objects. 
          They can retrieve or update the values of an objects properties 
        What is a method?
            Methods typically represent how people or other things interact with an object in the real world. 
        What does a method do? 
             The code for a method can contain lots of instrctions that together represent one task. 
             
   Example:
   Objecttype: document
   Properties: 
      URL: www.example.com/
      Last modified: today!
      title: learning code
    Event: Happens when
       load : page and assests have loaded
       click : user clisk something
       keypress : user pressed key
     Method: what it do
        write() : adds new content to the docment 
        getElementByld() accesses an element when you state its id attribute
        
        
  How a browers sees a web page
     1. receieve a page as HTML code
     2. create a model of the page and store it in memory
     3. use a rendering engine to show the page on screen
     
 Summary of chapter 1B How do computers fit in with the world around them? 
    - computers create models of the world using data
    - the models use objects to represent physical things. 
            objects can have: properties that tell us about the object; 
            methods that perform tasks using the properties of that object; 
            events which are triggered when a user interacts with the computer 
     - programmers can write code to say "when this event occurs, run that code"
     - web browsers use HTML markup to create a model of the web page. Each element creates its own node 
     - to make webpages interactive, you write code that uses the browser's model of the web page
     
  
  Chapter 1C How do I write a script for a webpage?
  
  HTML : content layers
  CSS : presentation layer 
  JS : behavior layers 
  
  Link your JS to your HTML files 
  
  Summary 1C 
  - keep your JS codein its own JS file. 
  - HTML <script> element is used in HTML pages to tell the brower to load the JS file 
  - view the source code of the page in the browers. JS will not change the HTML, script works with the model of the web page that the browser has created.
  
